# Biol710
Work being done for SFSU class, BIOL710. 

Introduction

Historical challenges faced by southern sea otters (Enhydra lutris), in particular habitat loss and degradation due to human activities, have raised concerns about their population stagnation and limited genetic diversity in concentrated areas (Larson et al., 2012). There has also been a rise in recent years of white shark bites being the most common cause of death along the outer edges of the growing southern sea otter population (Miller et al., 2020), as sharks seem to confuse otters for young seals which are the shark’s main prey source. The increasing occurrence of white sharks mistargeting southern sea otters is intensifying throughout the year, disrupting sea otter recovery efforts and necessitating a reevaluation of management strategies that traditionally overlook such dynamic predator-prey conflicts (Moxley et al., 2019). San Francisco Bay (SFB) may provide a vital population localization that can bypass the shark/sea otter conflict. This is because SFB is predominantly a shallow estuary with an average depth of 6m (Conomos et al., 1985), while white sharks avoid the surface and use water to 50m depth when near pinniped rookeries as part of their hunting strategy (Moxley et al., 2019). However, the successful re-colonization of sea otters in SFB, and the appropriateness of instigating a formal reintroduction effort, hinges on an understanding of how the animals can succeed in establishing their habitat in low risk areas away from vessel traffic with adequate foraging possibilities (Rudebusch et al., 2020). The purpose of this thesis study is to assess the benthic invertebrate communities across ten sites within the envisioned foraging range of California sea otters within SFB, mirroring their natural feeding behaviors. This data will be compared with invertebrate assemblages from Elkhorn Slough to evaluate the potential of these sites to support sustainable sea otter populations and to inform future conservation management. The project for class 710 in specific is to assess (1) diversity indexes and (2) abundances of benthic invertebrates using a fake dataset modelled to be a prediction of the data to be collected within the next year. 
. . .

